Well we're finally to the point where we can begin working on read typology.
Now right now this character is almost eight million tries.
So it's pretty dense.
This isn't something that we could take into a video game not even on the best console's at this point
in time.
So what we've got to do is read to apologize or recreate the character in a much lower polygon form.
So if we can get this character down to 10 20 30 thousand tries I think we'll be doing good.
Now there's a lot of different ways that you can make a video game character you could begin right off
with low poly version and then texture that what sculpting I think allows you to do is to have a little
more freedom an artistic license as you're creating.
To me it's a little more free flowing.
But in exchange for that kind of freedom you've got to spend the time to go back and read to apologize.
So we're going to create a low poly version of this character and then ultimately what we will do is
bake a normal map that will take all of this high resolution detail and bake it into a texture map that
we can then apply to the low poly version in the game.
So let's get started on that.
The first thing I'd do is just hide all the clothes and accessories.
I've got all of them on Layer 2 here and I've got the character on Layer 1.
The next thing I want to do is actually create an object that is going to be the read to apologized
mesh.
So to do that I'm gonna come over here to create tab click on cube and there is our cube.
Call this real Toppo just so we know what it is.
As we're working on it and then I'll tab into edit mode in vertex mode.
I'll select all the vertices and then I'll just hit X and delete vertices.
So now we have an object that has no services has no geometry.
All right so let's zoom into the character here.
I'm going to press Shift B and drag an area to zoom into and there he is.
I'll hit the one key on the keyboard to go to the front view and our perspective view here is a little
bit distorted.
I don't like how it's kind of a wide angle lens.
I think that's going to be difficult to deal with if I hit the five key to go to orthographic view.
It looks like that and it looks crazy it looks a little scary.
I'm gonna hit the five key again to get out of that.
Well that's something you just can't unsee.
So I'm going to hit the N key and here I want to scroll up and for the viewport Lim's angle I think
I'm just going to type in 75 and hit enter.
And that gives me a little bit more flattened view of the character.
I think that'll work out OK.
If you've seen my previous character creation series on YouTube you know that in that series I kind
of created or drew out the edge loops of the face in two dimensions.
And the reason why I did the edge loops the way I did is because you really want the edges of the character's
face to mirror the muscle structure of the human face.
And if you look at the muscles of the human face you'll see that there are these kind of loops around
the eyes and the mouth and those specific structures are what allow our faces to move in the way they
do.
So what we'll try and do is we'll try and replicate this structure the loops around the eyes and the
mouth.
And one of the ways to do that is to structure your edge loops like this around the mouth the nose the
eyes etc..
So what we're going to be doing is using this particular image as a guide.
I found this out on the internet years ago and I wish I knew who created it.
If you if you know please let me know because I'd love to give them credit.
I've been using this particular image in the classroom and the classes that I teach for years so I'd
love to know who created this.
It's been a really good educational tool.
So I'll put a link to this image in the description of the video.
I'm going to go ahead and create a new screen over here.
Just grab this and pull it down and I'll switch to the U-V editor and I'll bring that image in.
All right I think I'll turn off the mat cap here so just scroll down and turn that off.
So we still have this read Toppo object in edit mode.
That's good we need that.
So let's scroll back up here in the properties panel to the grease pencil area.
Let's click on new to create a new grease pencil data block.
We want to have object and surface selected.
We also want to have continuous drawing selected.
So now if I hit draw that will create a new grease pencil layer and activate the grease pencil here
in the 3-D view.
So I'm going to zoom in a bit and what I'm going to do is I'm going to begin by drawing out this loop
of edges right around the lips.
So I'll begin here in the middle and I'll just click and draw straight down.
And draw one coming down out of the middle of the nostril one from the edge of the nose one right about
here.
I'll do two around the mouth like this.
One kind of from the chin toward the lip here and one right here in the center.
OK.
So if I tumble around you can see that those have been constrained to the object.
That's because we have this object and surface selected so I'll hit enter to confirm that.
Now what I can do is come over the Tools panel and I've got this beast services plug in here in my tools
panel.
Now this plug in is enabled through the user preferences window.
So I'm going to go to a file user preferences and if I go to Add ons and just type in the surface this
is the one that comes up.
All I've done is just added a checkmark here and clicked on save user settings and that will allow this
be Services Panel to be available when you're in edit mode.
All right so I've drawn the grease pencil lines I've hit enter my RE Toppo object is still in edit mode
and I'll click add surface and there it is.
Now what it's done let me move this up here.
What it's done is it's given as three edges for every grease pencil line drawn.
So I want to take that down to one.
And it's also given us these cross edges and I don't want any of those just to drag this down to one
as well.
And there is the first loop around the mouth.
All right.
That's good.
But what I also want to be able to do is see this mirrored over to the other side.
So when I come over here to the ADD modifiers menu and click on mirror and now we can see it over on
the other side I'm also going to turn on unclipping because I want the center points to be sure and
clip and merge together.
So if you see now I can take these points and drag them and they will merge together.
So I'm just going to make sure and merge them like that.
This one as well and this one as well so they are exactly down the center of the character there.
And what I try and do is have the points stick out of the mesh.
So if they go back into the mesh like that I know they're probably too far back.
Now you can use the snapping tools down here but I find it kind of slows me down.
So I'm going to not use those at this particular time.
All right.
Let's keep moving on.
I'm going to begin drawing another grease pencil line here.
But you know what I think I'd like to have the B surfaces maybe over here.
I don't want to keep having to switch back and forth from grease pencil to Tools tab all the time.
So I think what I'm going to do is hit the End key to close this panel.
I'm going to grab this little corner right here and just drag it out and if I drag it out a little bit
more here let me see if I can.
There there's that Tools panel right there.
And if I get too close it'll go away but I just want to do it like that so that I can see it now.
So over here maybe I'll have my grease pencil.
And over here I'll have my b surfaces.
Let's try that.
So pull that up like that.
All right let's try it again.
I'm just going to draw one grease pencil line here at the tip of the nose right about here and just
down like this.
And then I'll hit enter.
I'll choose this edge and then I'll come over here and hit add surface and that will extend that there.
I'll take the follow down to one and then we have that piece of geometry for the bottom of the nose
if you want to be able to see your read apologized mesh a little better what you can do is come over
here to this object window and turn on x ray like like that.
So you can see it a little better but sometimes it can fool you because you can see right through the
object so I tend to have that turned off and just go by whether or not the points are outside the mesh.
You can do it either way.
I'll turn it off and on.
Periodically just to see how I'm doing.
All right so at this point what I'm going to do is take this point this vertex and move it kind of like
this.
And what I want to do is have this these points so I've taken this point here of that polygon and moved
it down in line with these points here so that I can select this whole edge and extrude it up you can
kind of see it here in the in the diagram.
So I'm going to select this point and maybe else like this in a press control and click that and it'll
select everything between those two points and then I'm going to go ahead and draw my grease pencil
line.
Maybe one right here like that.
And hit enter and surface take the follow down to one.
And there we go.
Now I want to move these out just a bit and from this point I'm going to take this edge right here and
extrude these two edges up toward the brow.
So I'll just draw another line here.
And one up here hit enter click and surface followed down to one and then connect him up at the middle
point like that so if I click on x ray you can see what it's beginning to look like here we've got this.
What I like to call a loop mask or low poly version of the character's face now.
All right so let's work on the eyes.
I'm just going to select this edge right here and just extrude it myself without the grease pencil you
can do that of course and I'll hit E and drag out and scale that in
and just put this right on the inside of the eye.
I've got X-ray on still I need to turn that off so I can see when it's intersecting with the model and
maybe I'll bring it in like this.
All right so now what I can do is come in with the grease pencil and draw my edges around the eye so
maybe one right here one here
one here and these are kind of radiating out around the eye here like this and maybe one like that.
So I hit Enter Slyke that edge and surface follow down to one.
And if I hit x ray you can see it there.
All right so now I'm going to just select these four points and hit the F key to create that face.
And there we're getting that loop around the eye now and that's good that's what we want.
OK let's go back to the mouth and let's draw a loop out here around the mouth.
I'll hit the draw button and I'm going to begin here and just drop down around the mouth down to the
middle of the chin hit enter.
I'll select these edges here and hit add surface and followed down to 1.
Now you can see what happened here when I extruded this.
Those faces are flipped you can see they're kind of that I don't know odd gray purple color.
So I'm going to select these faces select this one control select that one press the W key and choose
flip normal's and that'll flip those back around.
And that happens sometimes and that's fine I'll go back to Virtex moments like these two vertices and
I'll press Allt em and I'll choose to merge these two points at the center.
And we go and then I'll just move that back a little bit
like that and let's get one more edge loop around the mouth there.
So these edges are going to hook up for one of the faces of the next loop around the mouth so I'll hit
the F key here.
This one as well is going to connect up with these so all so like these and hit F I mean turn off x
ray for a moment here and make sure that these points are poking out of the mesh like that.
And now what I can do is from this point draw an edge down just under the chin here.
So I'll hit the draw button come right around in here and draw that right down under the chin like that
it enter and I'll select this row of edges hit add surface follow down to one and then it looks like
if I hit x ray that's flipped again so I need to fix that real quick.
Let me put that in the center face mode and select them w and flip normal's.
And now I'm going to connect these two up so I'll just select this one shift select this point an alt
in and merge these.
And there we go.
Let's draw another line from here down around the bottom of the chin so I'll hit draw and come down
here and begin right up here.
Down kind of under the chin here like so I'll hit enter all select these edges
and hit add surface.
Take the follow down to one.
Once again those faces can't get that right.
And that's fine.
We just flip them around and then connect these points up here I'll hit alt in and merge at last.
Let's try that.
All right one more I'm going to get this row right out here.
So same thing applies.
A quick draw and let's draw this out.
Right down underneath the chin
enter edge mode select these edges and surface follow the one most likely I'm going to need to flip
those right.
Yep W and flip and we go
all right.
So there we have the beginnings of the loop mask for our character.